Hello everyone.
In this video we'll be installing code light.
Code light is an integrated development environment.
What that is, is basically a piece of software that allows us to enter our code, build our programs,
run our programs, test our programs all in one place.
Code light is open source.
It's free, it's cross-platform, and it works really well.
So open up your favorite browser and head over to code light org and you'll see a web page that looks
like this.
Then you want to click on the download button.
And you'll get this page.
And if you want to support the developer, please, by all means do so.
I'm going to click not now continue to the download page.
I'm recording this in June of 2023.
They just released the code light 17 .3.0 Build Code lite became really unstable in code lite 17.
So this 17.3 build is pretty good.
The only problem is that it changed the way that we build things.
So going forward, we're going to use 17.3.
Also, if you're downloading this in the future and you see something like 17.5 or 18 or something like
that, check the resources section for this video.
A lot of times I'll say just stick to 17.3.
Don't update to 18.0 because you could have bugs in those releases.
So I want to install 17 .3.0 and I'm going to click the Windows 64 installer here and that's going to
download an executable file that's an installer.
Now I've already gone ahead and done that and I saved it to my desktop and you can see that right here.
Now if I double click this and install it.
You might get something that looks like this.
Windows protected your PC.
Microsoft Defender does this a lot.
And basically what it's saying is, hey, I don't know where this file came from.
It's not from the Windows store.
If you get this, that's okay.
It's really easy to work around it.
What you can do is you right click on the installer.
And select properties.
Then in the general tab, you'll see right here security unblock.
If you do that, then you can run the installer with no problems.
So I'm going to apply.
Click.
Okay.
Now I'm going to double click.
And I get this little message that pops up that says, Your app is going to change my device.
I want it to.
So I'm going to click.
Yes.
And here's the installer.
There's the license agreement.
You can read it and agree to it.
I'll accept it.
I'll select next.
Now where do we want to install this?
I would strongly recommend to not change this.
Leave it alone.
C Program files.
Code light is a great place to install it.
Do not install this on a shared drive.
Do not install this on a cloud drive for example.
One drive.
Don't change these names and start adding really strange symbols and things in there.
That's just asking for trouble with builds later on.
So select the default.
Click next.
And it says the program code already exists.
Would you like to install to that folder anyway?
Yours probably won't say that mine is saying it because I already had code light installed, so I'm
going to select.
Yes.
Give the program a name.
I'll select next again.
Do you want to create a desktop icon and a quick launch icon?
I'll say yes.
You don't have to.
That's your personal preference.
I'll select next and then I'm going to click install and it's going to go through the install.
It's a pretty quick install.
You can just run right through this.
Now at this point, we've installed the C plus plus compiler in the previous video and now we've installed
code lite, so we're ready to go.
The next step is to configure code lite to work with the compiler that we've already installed, and
we'll do that in the next video.